#summary Default Views and generic functionality
#labels view,Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

Every module should have a default set of functionality based on its model as defined in the Zupal_Model section

= Details =

Every node should be:
  * Viewable in three levels:
    # List (aggregate) 
    # Block (home page or margin) -- the Drupal "Teaser"
    # Detail (full/page view) -- the default

== Annotation == 

The world is a lot more granular than that. The ability to alter your data's view according to contexts such as these would be wonderful. 

  * HomePage block item
  * HomePage list item 
  * Block list item
  * Block Detail
  * Search List
  * Feed Block
  * Feed Detail (press release?)
  * Commerce Block
  * Search Detail
  * Detail
  * List 
  * Admin List
  * Menu List

These terms are not coincidental. Every piece of content should have a list and detail view, but both the module and the user (in that order) should be able to customize the view based on context. 

For instance, 

  * You might want to create a very short title for an items' homepage block list view
  * You might want the search detail to be much more keword-y
  * You might want to again make the teaser on the home page to be much more loaded with search words than the detail you provide on a section subpages' block view of a featured item. 

Annotation is an optional add on. Everything past the three minimum views should be an annotation -- as in, "If this item appears on the home page its title should be 'this'". Annotations should be weighted and updating content should force a review of the annotations. 

The annotations can potentially confilct and therefore need to be ordered and reorderable. They should "Cascade" -- if you have a specific annotation that is the exact set of parameter tags that a context requires than use that one -- otherwise use the best matches in descending order. 