#summary Oh the Humanity!
#labels Phase-Requirements,people

As I've detailed on http://wonderlandlabs.com/wll_drupal/refactoring_humanity.html, far too many systems overload the concept of people with functional specifications. Because of this I am including a model for people in Zupal that does not presume anything about the nature of the people in terms of role, context or other metadata.

People in Zupal may be leads, users, customers, celebrities, etc. they are not, in fact, content nodes, but a more general resource types. Little more than their names and email addresses are stored in the people table. (for convenience the username/password has been denormalized to the table but that might not stick.) 

Every other piece of information about a person is normalized; phone numbers, addresses, etc. 

I am flipping a coin as to whether or not to associate users as a separate table or simply allocate all privileges to people; i.e., is "User" functionality worth a unique and separate frame of reference, or are users just people with privileges? My gut is leaning that way. 

Having the entity of people being a reusable component should save some time when extending functionality into areas like e-commerce. Creating a customer domain just means defining a business centric table linked to the person, and a set of decorated addresses (billing, shipping, work) with that customer. 

Similarly, a lead is simply a person who has a relationship with (optionally) their company and their representative. 

This should improve archiving and updating of personal records. If a lead changes addresses, just archive their home address and add a new one. 

De-duplication can also be done at the atomic level. You can prevent creation of identical addresses and flagged as a possible duplicate. 

You can also group addresses into location areas or grids for marketing purposes. 

Note that people are not currently considered nodes. The likelihood of the people system being used for lead gen means that a huge swath of anonymous content is going to be stored in the people table, and we don't want that blowing back to the node table. "People Pages" will probably include a separate resource table which will be noded. 

I might flip on this and add People to the roster of things that get nodes if it turns useful. 

== Usage ==

People are not noded content. However the people table functions as its own dimension of nodes in their own way. 

== Current Status ==

People can be made and listed in the people module. An acctual login and ACL season is TBD. 