#summary Using Zend_Layout for modular templates
#labels Phase-Requirements,templates,view

= Introduction =

Of course you need a switchable layout system for a modular CMS. The layout system of Zend is a good start but a little more functionality is necesary for a self contained templateing system. 

This spec is much more speculative than the rest of the spec as there has been much less contemplation put into it. 

= Alternatives = 

a tempates/mytemplate/main.phtml file and associated resources (in the mytemplate folder) is the basis for a working template system. It must however be publicly accessible.

The simplest path forward to this is to put the template folder in the public directory. 

Its also worth considering an .htaccess based system that maps the resources to the public directory in Apache. 

Activating a given template should be a matter of setting the template folder name in a global resource, wither a database, ini file or define() element. An optional directive for the admin template would be useful, as would the ability to override the template within a controller or action. 

= Template Design =

Currently there are three placeholders available to the template; more to come. 

* *page_title* is the main top of content title. By convention it is embedded in an H1 tag. 
* *breadcrumb* is an arbitrary string (or class with a __toString() method) currently being satisfied by a Zupal_Menu object. 
* *nav* is the main page navigation currently being satisfied by a Zupal_Menu object.

= Current State =

Currently there is no templates; there is a single default layout. 